This document describes the setup for live coding with [**gibber.audio.lib**][gibber.audio] using [Sublime Text 3][st3] and [Node.js][node]. Other setups may be added in future (notably [Atom][atom]).

This is not an exact step-by-step guide; users are expected to have a high degree of autonomy, a willingness to read documentation carefully, and *some* advanced computer skill e.g. with command-line operations. Having said that, [Node.js][node], and [Sublime Text][st3] and the [SublimeREPL][repl] plugin for it all have **excellent** documentation.

##### Necessary ingredients

-   [Node.js][node]
-   [Sublime Text 3][st3]
-   [Package Control][pkgctrl] for [ST3][st3]
-   [SublimeREPL][repl]

[Node][node] and [ST3][st3] can be downloaded and installed just as with any other software. Once you have [ST3][st3] up and running, install [Package Control][pkgctrl] as described at it’s website. Once *that* is done, use [Package Control][pkgctrl] to install [SublimeREPL][repl].

[gibber.audio][gibber.audio] is slightly more complex.
Start by running `npm -g install web-audio-api` to get [**gibber.audio**’s][gibber.audio] one dependency installed system-wide. If you have a properly configured Linux system, you should have no problems. OSX and Windows users will need to have development tools installed: XCode for OSX and Microsoft Visual Studio, either 2010 or 2012, depending on your version of Windows (unfortunately, sorting out which version you will need is a headache, and somewhat beyond the scope of this document). Assuming that XCode/VS are properly installed, the `npm` command above should run without errors.

Then grab the [gibber.audio zip][tarball] and unzip it somewhere convenient (“My Documents” or what have you).

The live coding tutorials are set up to be run from within the [gibber.audio][gibber.audio] subdirectory from which they originate; the path to the [gibber.audio][gibber.audio] library is relative. Running the examples from elsewhere is unsupported, but your primary issue will be getting [Node][node] to find the [gibber.audio][gibber.audio] library.

I recommend trying a sanity check using [Node][node] before attempting to use [ST3][st3]. Open a [Node][node] command prompt (from e.g. the **Start Menu** shortcut on Windows), start [Node][node] (i.e. `C:\> node{ENTER}`), change to the directory in which this file is located, and enter

````js
AudioContext = require('web-audio-api').AudioContext
````

You should see

````js
{ [Function]
    super_: { [Function: EventEmitter] listenerCount: [Function] } }
````

Next, try

````js
Gibber = require('../../build/gibber.audio.lib.js')
````

which will dump a large amount of JavaScript to the terminal, and then

````js
Gibber.init()
````

Which should return only `undefined`

If all of that works, fire up [ST3][st3], follow [SublimeREPL’s][repl] directions to set up and start a [Node][node] REPL, and try running through the first tutorial (“1. Audio Basics Part I.js”) by opening the file, placing the cursor in the first line (`AudioContext = require('web-audio-api').AudioContext`), and hitting `CTRL` + `,` and then `K`. You should get the same result as with the [Node][node] sanity check.

##### Special note for Windows

There is a known issue with [SublimeREPL][repl] on Windows, which seems to be an issue with the way that Python and Windows work together (or don’t). You might (almost certainly will) experience running code from [ST3][st3] and having it do absolutely nothing. If this happens, check the [ST3][st3] console by entering `` CTRL+` ``. If you see `OSError: [WinError 6] The handle is invalid`, then your **only** option is to close [ST3][st3], wait a minute or two, and then try again. In the worst case, you may need to reboot.

[gibber.audio]: https://github.com/charlieroberts/gibber.audio.lib
[st3]: http://www.sublimetext.com/3
[atom]: https://atom.io
[node]: http://nodejs.org/download
[pkgctrl]: https://sublime.wbond.net/installation
[repl]: https://sublime.wbond.net/packages/SublimeREPL
[tarball]: https://github.com/charlieroberts/gibber.audio.lib/archive/master.zip
